AN OIL DRUM? REALLY?	 In the year 1900 the world saw continuous growth in the supply of oil.  Drilling was taking place all over, from Texas to Persia, modern day Iran.  However, the current means of transporting the good, commonly known as the “Bayonne Barrel” for the New Jersey manufacturer producing the container, was heavy and not entirely leakproof.  The demand for a better means of transporting oil grew.  Enter Nellie Bly, the former journalists turned inventor, with the patents for a straight-sided steel drum, with rolling hoops and a side or top fitting.  Thus, the 55-gallon steel drum was born.  The drum designed by Bly is almost the exact configuration still used today.  The main difference is that the straight-sided cylinder design of the early 1900s had metal rolling hoops that were separate from the body; the modern-day design features hoops that are attached to the drum itself.Elizabeth J. Cochran Seaman (Nellie Bly) was a famous journalist who investigated conditions at an infamous mental institution, made a trip around the world in less than 80 days — and her Iron Clad Manufacturing Company manufactured the first practical 55-gallon oil drum.The 1901 Pan-American Exposition in Buffalo, N.Y., promoted as “owned exclusively by Nellie Bly — the only woman in the world personally managing industries of such magnitude.”In America’s oilfields, traditional wooden barrels had always been problematic for shipping oil. Despite the introduction of pipelines and railroad tank cars, there remained the need for manageable-sized, durable, leak-proof barrels. Standard Oil Company introduced a steel version of the common 42-gallon oil drum in 1902. It had the traditional cask-like appearance. Although stronger than wooden barrels, the new barrel could still leak. Nellie Bly had a better idea.In 1894, Bly married wealthy industrialist Robert Seaman, owner of the Iron Clad Manufacturing Company. At the time, Iron Clad produced milk cans, riveted boilers, tanks, and “The Most Durable Enameled Kitchen-Ware Made.” After Seaman died in 1904, Nelly became the sole owner of the company.Her employee, Henry Wehrhahn, received two patents that would lead to the modern steel barrel, the 55-gallon oil drum. Wehrhahn, a machinist, became superintendent of the Iron Clad Manufacturing Company in 1902. He received a patent that included a metal barrel with “a means for readily detaching and securing the head of a metal barrel”. The patent was for a straight-sided steel drum, with rolling hoops and a side or top fitting.  Thus, the 55-gallon steel drum was born.  Wehrhahn assigned his patent to Nellie Bly, and that drum design is almost the exact configuration still used today.  The main difference was that the straight-sided cylinder design of the early 1900’s had metal rolling hoops that were separate from the body; the modern-day design features hoops that are attached to the drum itself.WHY TRINIDAD, THOUGH?The steel band developed directly out of Tamboo-Bamboo bands, which provided Carnival music for the lower classes in Port of Spain after a 19th century British colonial law banned the use of African-type skin drums. But the bamboo tubes pounded repeatedly on the ground splintered and broke, so the tamboo-bamboo players began looking for other instruments. In the 1930s, they started migrating to metal household items such as soap boxes, biscuit tins, and dustbins as sturdier, longer-lasting instruments.Now, oil had been discovered in southern Trinidad since 1866, and by the early 1900s there were several British and American oil companies operating in Trinidad. In fact, Trinidad was a major supplier of oil to Britain during WW1 (1914-1918), producing over 1 million barrels of oil in 1914.All that oil was stored in Nellie Bly’s 55-gallon drums, and when ships headed off to fight the war in Europe, the empty drums were discarded in the ports and along the roadsides. They were plentiful and free, and the players soon realised they could be turned into steel pans of various lengths by cutting cross-sections into the 55-gallon metal container. The pans were then tuned to different pitches by indenting and tempering the metal surface. It is generally accepted that the steel pan was first made around 1939 in Trinidad and Tobago, just as WWII got seriously underway.By the time the United States entered WW2 in late 1941, Trinidad’s oil was extremely important for British aeroplanes and ships. The US established over 200 bases in Trinidad and Tobago, the most well-known being the Chaguaramas peninsula in the west, Docksite (south of Wrightson Road in Port of Spain), and Wallerfield in the east. In fact, the country became known as “Naval Base Trinidad”, and was the main training centre for US troops preparing for war.Because Carnival celebrations were banned during wartime (1939-1945), the first appearance of steelbands on the road was in 1947.The Trinidad All-Steel Pan Percussion Orchestra (TASPO), formed to attend the Festival of Britain in 1951, was the first steelband whose instruments were all made from oil drums. THE 55-GALLON OIL DRUMA standard 55-gallon drum is approximately 35 inches (89 cm) tall with about a 23-inch (58 cm) diameter. It is usually made from low-carbon (18-gauge) steel and features reinforced rolling hoops/beads and a double-seamed top and bottom. The drum can have two types of closures: tight head for liquids, and open head for solids or thick pastes.